Bringing Fish Back to Florida from The Bahamas | FWC
Skip to main content
Home
Fishing
Saltwater Fishing
Recreational Regulations
Bringing Fish Back to Florida from The Bahamas
Bahamian waters near southeast Florida begin at the end of the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone. To ensure you know what jurisdiction you are fishing in, learn more about the U.S. EEZ limit line location.
This is intended for recreational anglers fishing in The Bahamas and bringing fish back to the U.S.
When Fishing in the Bahamas
All passengers must possess a valid government passport from their country of origin with current Bahamian stamps and travel dates
Vessels must have valid Bahamian cruising and sportfishing permits
The requirement to clear Bahamian customs applies to all U.S. fishing vessels, regardless of whether they are embarking on a single- or multi-day trip.
Check with Bahamas authorities to verify applicable fishing laws and regulations.
Visit Bahamas Fishing FAQ or Bahamas.gov.bs for more information
Bringing Fish Back to Florida by Vessel
Remember, Bahamian and U.S. fishing regulations are not always the same.
Be fully aware of the state and federal regulations for the species that you are transporting by vessel.
Anglers must not exceed South Atlantic federal single day vessel limit and per person bag limits, as well as seasons, when entering U.S. waters.
Follow the more restrictive bag and possession limits when entering U.S. waters from The Bahamas on a vessel. Visit the South Atlantic federal regulations for more information.
Finfish Vessel Transport:
Anglers entering U.S. waters must follow South Atlantic federal single day vessel limits and per person bag limits, as well as seasons.
Only dolphin, wahoo, and reef fish may be brough back from The Bahamas as fillets.
All other species must be brought back in the condition specified in U.S. federal rules.
For fish brought back as fillets:
Skin must remain on the entire fillet.
Two fillets, regardless of the length of each fillet, count as one fish toward the bag limit
Fish brought into the U.S. cannot be sold
Traveling with fish harvested in The Bahamas through U.S. federal waters and Florida state waters must be direct and continuous and gear must remain stowed.
Appropriately stowed gear means terminal gear (i.e., hooks, leaders, sinkers, etc.) must be disconnected and stowed separately from rod and reel.
Spiny Lobster Vessel Transport:
Bahamian rules allow you to possess whole and wrung (tailed) lobster; however, when returning to Florida, lobster must be in whole condition (head and tail intact).
Spiny lobster can only be transported into U.S. waters during the Florida recreational regular season (Aug. 6-March 31), not including the 2-day sport season.
Spiny lobster cannot be brought back into U.S. waters during the 2-day sport season because, in The Bahamas, the season is closed during that time period.
Lobster lawfully harvested by spear in The Bahamas may be transported to Florida as long as travel is direct and continuous to the point of landing.
Prohibited Species Transport:
Species prohibited from harvest in the U.S. (Nassau and goliath grouper, etc.) may not be transported through U.S. federal waters or Florida state waters by boat.
It is illegal to harvest, land, transport, or possess queen conch in Florida state waters or adjacent federal waters.
Air Transport:
Fish and lobster that are legally harvested in The Bahamas may be transported via airplane into the U.S.
Conch may only be transported from The Bahamas by airplane and only for personal consumption.
Check with Bahamian authorities for quantities allowed without permits.
US. Customs and Boarder Protection, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) have primary inspection authority at port of entry.
Contact USFWS for additional rules and regulations and CITES documentation requirements.
For more information, please see 50 CFR 622.186(b) and 50 CFR 622.276(b).
Links for more information:
Bahamas Fishing
Bahamas Custom
💬 Ask Buck!
✖