Boundary Maps and Management Zones | FWC
Skip to main content
Home
Fishing
Saltwater Fishing
Recreational Regulations
Boundary Maps and Management Zones
Florida state waters are from shore to 3 nautical miles on the Atlantic and from shore to 9 nautical miles on the Gulf. In most places, federal waters extend from where state waters end out to about 200 nautical miles or to where other country's waters begin.
The maps below detail important fishing boundaries and management zones.
Atlantic/Gulf boundary
Expand/Collapse Atlantic/Gulf boundary
(applies to all saltwater species except grouper and snook)
View larger map
Atlantic circle hook regulations
Expand/Collapse Atlantic circle hook regulations
State and federal regulations require all commercial fishers and recreational anglers fishing for any reef fish species to have and use certain gear. In state waters, reef fish species include groupers, snappers, amberjacks, gray triggerfish, red porgy, sea bass, hogfish and tilefish. Learn more.
20-Fathom Break and Grouper Atlantic/Gulf boundary line
Expand/Collapse 20-Fathom Break and Grouper Atlantic/Gulf boundary line
Monroe County
Several species of Atlantic grouper (red, black, yellowfin, yellowmouth, scamp, rock hind, red hind, coney, graysby and tiger) are closed Jan. 1 - April 30 in all state and federal waters of the Atlantic including all state waters off Monroe County (Atlantic and Gulf sides). During this closure, anglers can harvest grouper in open federal waters of the Gulf and return to port in Monroe County by traveling through closed state waters of the Gulf as long as the vessel proceeds directly to port without stopping to fish.
View larger map
Bay Scallop
Expand/Collapse Bay Scallop
St. Joseph Bay and Gulf County: Aug. 16-Sept. 24. This region includes all state waters from the Mexico Beach Canal in Bay County to the westernmost point of St. Vincent Island in Franklin County.
Franklin County through northwestern Taylor County (including Carrabelle, Lanark and St. Marks): July 1 through Sept. 24. This region includes all state waters from the westernmost point of St. Vincent Island in Franklin County to Rock Island near the mouth of the Fenholloway River in Taylor County.
Fenholloway through Suwannee Rivers Zone (including Keaton Beach and the Steinhatchee area): June 15 through Labor Day. This region includes all state waters east of Rock Island near the mouth of the Fenholloway River in Taylor County and north of Alligator Pass daybeacon #4 near the mouth of the Suwannee River in Levy County. This area has a lowered bag limit June 15-30. See bag limit section for more.
Levy, Citrus and Hernando counties (including Cedar Key, Crystal River and Homosassa): July 1 through Sept. 24. This region includes all state waters south of Alligator Pass daybeacon #4 near the mouth of the Suwannee River in Levy County and north of the Hernando – Pasco county line.
Please do not discard scallop shells in inshore waters commonly used for recreational activities such as the Homosassa River or Crystal River. Piles of discarded scallop shells can create hazards for swimmers and damage seagrass habitat. Scallop shells can be discarded in a trash receptacle or in larger bodies of water where they are more likely to disperse.
Pasco County: July 10 through Aug. 18. This region includes all state waters south of the Hernando – Pasco county line and north of the Anclote Key Lighthouse in northern Pinellas County, and includes all waters of the Anclote River.
Blue Crab Trap Closures
Expand/Collapse Blue Crab Trap Closures
In an effort to identify and retrieve lost and abandoned blue crab traps, the FWC has established regional blue crab trap closures. These six regional closures last up to 10 days and prohibit recreational and commercial harvest of blue crabs with traps in these areas. The closures alternate coasts every year with closures on the east coast of Florida occurring during the even numbered years and closures on the west coast occurring on the odd years.
Even Year Closures
All waters of the St. Johns River system its associated lakes and tributaries from west of the St. Johns River's intersection with the Intercoastal Canal through and including Lake Helen of Blazes from Jan. 16-25
All waters from the Georgia/Florida state line, excluding the St. Johns River system, south through Volusia County from Aug. 20-29
All waters of Brevard through Palm Beach counties, excluding the St. Johns River system, from Aug. 10-19
Odd Year Closures
All waters of Franklin County to the Florida/Alabama state line however, excluding all waters of the Ochlockonee River and Bay, from Jan. 5-14
All waters of Broward through Pasco Counties from July 10-19
All waters of Hernando through Wakulla counties including all waters of the Ochlockonee River and Bay from July 20-29
Hogfish
Expand/Collapse Hogfish
Learn more about hogfish seasons and regulations.
Permit
Expand/Collapse Permit
Learn more about permit regulations within the Special Permit Zone.
The Special Permit Zone includes state and federal waters south of Cape Florida in the Atlantic and south of Cape Sable in the Gulf.
Red Drum
Expand/Collapse Red Drum
Learn more about red drum regulations.
Red drum management zones:
Panhandle: The western boundary is located at the Florida-Alabama border and the region extends east near Alligator Point.
Big Bend: The western boundary is located near Alligator Point. The region extends east and south to the Fred Howard Park, near the border of Pasco and Pinellas counties.
Tampa Bay: The northern boundary is located at Fred Howard Park, near the border of Pasco and Pinellas counties and extends south to State Road 64 in Manatee County.
Sarasota Bay: The northern boundary is located at State Road 64 in Manatee County and the region extends south near the Venice Municipal Airport.
Charlotte Harbor: The northern boundary is located near the Venice Municipal Airport, and extends south to near Vanderbilt Beach Road in Collier County.
Southwest: The northern boundary is located near Vanderbilt Beach rd, in Collier County, and extends around the Florida Keys to the Monroe/Miami-Dade County line.
Southeast: The northern boundary is located at the Martin-Palm Beach county border and the region extends south to the Miami-Dade/Monroe County line.
Indian River Lagoon: The northern boundary is located at Lytle Avenue/South Causeway in New Smyrna Beach and extends south to Martin-Palm Beach County line.
Northeast: The northern boundary is located at the Florida-Georgia border and extends south to Lytle Avenue/South Causeway in New Smyrna Beach.
Snook
Expand/Collapse Snook
Learn more about snook regulations. Regulations apply in all inland, state, and adjacent federal waters.
Panhandle: The western boundary is located at the Florida-Alabama border and the region extends to the eastern coastal boundary near Alligator Point. Includes all inland waters of the counties highlighted on the map. Does not include all waters of the Ochlockonee Bay, the Ochlockonee River and its tributaries.
Big Bend: The western boundary is located near Alligator Point. The region extends east and south to Fred Howard Park, near the border of Pasco and Pinellas counties. Includes all waters of the Ochlockonee, Withlacoochee, and Anclote rivers and their tributaries. Includes all inland waters of the counties highlighted on the map.
Tampa Bay: The northern boundary is located at Fred Howard Park, near the border of Pasco and Pinellas counties and the region extends south to State Road 64 in Manatee County. Includes all inland waters of the counties highlighted on the map. Includes all waters of the Alafia, Braden, Manatee, and Hillsborough rivers and their tributaries. Does not include the waters of Palma Sola Bay and the Anclote River and its tributaries.
Sarasota Bay: The northern coastal boundary is located at State Road 64 in Manatee County and the region extends south near the Venice Municipal Airport. Includes all waters of Palma Sola Bay, Phillippi Creek, Cow Pen Slough Canal and Curry Creek. Includes all inland waters of area highlighted on the map. Does not include the waters of the Braden and Manatee rivers.
Charlotte Harbor: The northern coastal boundary is located near the Venice Municipal Airport, and extends south near Vanderbilt Beach Road in Collier County. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted on the map. Includes all waters of the Caloosahatchee, Myakka, and Peace rivers and their tributaries. Does not include Lake Okeechobee.
Southwest: The northern boundary is located near Vanderbilt Beach Road in Collier County, and the region extends through the Florida Keys to the Monroe/Miami-Dade county line. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted on the map and all waters of Everglades National Park.
Southeast: The northern boundary is the Martin-Palm Beach county line and the region extends south to the Miami-Dade/Monroe county line. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted in the map. Includes all waters of Hillsboro Canal, Miami Canal, North New River Canal, and West Palm Beach Canal, and the Loxahatchee River and its tributaries. Does not include Lake Okeechobee and Everglades National Park.
Indian River Lagoon: The northern coastal boundary is located at Lytle Avenue/South Causeway in New Smyrna Beach and the region extends south to the Martin-Palm Beach county line. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted in the map, and all waters of the Kissimmee River and Lake Okeechobee. Does not include the waters of the Loxahatchee and St. Johns rivers and their tributaries.
Northeast: The northern coastal boundary is located at the Florda-Georgia border and the region extends south to the Lytle Avenue/South Causeway in New Smyrna Beach. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted in the map and the waters of the St. Johns River and its tributaries. Does not include the waters of the Withlacoochee and Kissimmee rivers, Cypress Lake and lakes Hatchineha and Kissimmee.
Spotted Seatrout
Expand/Collapse Spotted Seatrout
Learn more about spotted seatrout regulations. Regulations apply in all inland, state, and adjacent federal waters.
Panhandle: The western boundary is located at the Florida-Alabama border and the region extends to the eastern coastal boundary near Alligator Point. Includes all inland waters of the counties highlighted on the map. Does not include all waters of the Ochlockonee Bay, the Ochlockonee River and its tributaries.
Big Bend: The western boundary is located near Alligator Point. The region extends east and south to Fred Howard Park, near the border of Pasco and Pinellas counties. Includes all waters of the Ochlockonee, Withlacoochee, and Anclote rivers and their tributaries. Includes all inland waters of the counties highlighted on the map.
Tampa Bay: The northern boundary is located at Fred Howard Park, near the border of Pasco and Pinellas counties and the region extends south to State Road 64 in Manatee County. Includes all inland waters of the counties highlighted on the map. Includes all waters of the Alafia, Braden, Manatee, and Hillsborough rivers and their tributaries. Does not include the waters of Palma Sola Bay and the Anclote River and its tributaries.
Sarasota Bay: The northern coastal boundary is located at State Road 64 in Manatee County and the region extends south near the Venice Municipal Airport. Includes all waters of Palma Sola Bay, Phillippi Creek, Cow Pen Slough Canal and Curry Creek. Includes all inland waters of area highlighted on the map. Does not include the waters of the Braden and Manatee rivers.
Charlotte Harbor: The northern coastal boundary is located near the Venice Municipal Airport, and extends south near Vanderbilt Beach Road in Collier County. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted on the map. Includes all waters of the Caloosahatchee, Myakka, and Peace rivers and their tributaries. Does not include Lake Okeechobee.
Southwest: The northern boundary is located near Vanderbilt Beach Road in Collier County, and the region extends through the Florida Keys to the Monroe/Miami-Dade county line. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted on the map and all waters of Everglades National Park.
Southeast: The northern boundary is the Martin-Palm Beach county line and the region extends south to the Miami-Dade/Monroe county line. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted in the map. Includes all waters of Hillsboro Canal, Miami Canal, North New River Canal, and West Palm Beach Canal, and the Loxahatchee River and its tributaries. Does not include Lake Okeechobee and Everglades National Park.
Indian River Lagoon: The northern coastal boundary is located at Lytle Avenue/South Causeway in New Smyrna Beach and the region extends south to the Martin-Palm Beach county line. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted in the map, and all waters of the Kissimmee River and Lake Okeechobee. Does not include the waters of the Loxahatchee and St. Johns rivers and their tributaries.
Northeast: The northern coastal boundary is located at the Florda-Georgia border and the region extends south to the Lytle Avenue/South Causeway in New Smyrna Beach. Includes all inland waters of the area highlighted in the map and the waters of the St. Johns River and its tributaries. Does not include the waters of the Withlacoochee and Kissimmee rivers, Cypress Lake and lakes Hatchineha and Kissimmee.
Weakfish
Expand/Collapse Weakfish
The Weakfish Management Zone includes state waters from the Florida-Georgia line to the southernmost tip of Amelia Island, the inland waters of Nassau County and the St. Marys River and its tributaries east of Highway 17, north of State Highway 200A and north of the Shave Bridge on the Amelia River.
Western Dry Rocks
Expand/Collapse Western Dry Rocks
Fishing is prohibited within the marked boundaries near Western Dry Rocks from April 1 – July 31. Learn more.
💬 Ask Buck!
✖