Recreational Shrimping Regulations | FWC
Skip to main content
Home
Fishing
Saltwater Fishing
Recreational Regulations
Recreational Shrimping Regulations
A map depicting the boundary of the Big Bend Shrimp Closed Area, which includes a portion of state waters south and east of the St. Marks Lighthouse in Wakulla County and north of Bailey's Bluff in New Port Richey. Refer to rule 68B-31.017, Florida Administrative Code, for the official boundary of this area.
License requirement: Recreational saltwater fishing license (resident or non-resident), unless exempt.
Daily bag and vessel limits:
Within the Big Bend Region, individuals can take 2 gallons (heads on) per person or 5 gallons (heads on) per vessel. Within all other state waters, individuals can take 5 gallons (heads on) per harvester or 5 gallons (heads on) per vessel.
Possession limit of no more than 5 gallons (heads on) per vessel at any time regardless of the number of persons onboard.
Seasons:
Northeast Region (inside waters of Nassau, Duval, St. Johns, Putnam, Flagler, and Clay counties): closed April 1 through May 31.
Northwest Region (a portion of Apalachicola Bay, Franklin County): closed March 1 through May 31 and September 15 through December 31
Northwest Region (all of Apalachicola Bay and St. Vincent Sound, Franklin County): harvest prohibited between sunrise and sunset from July 15 through September 14.
All other regions (Southeast and Southwest) open year-round.
Closed areas: Contact your nearest FWC Law Enforcement office for local restrictions.
Northeast Region:
Any tributary of the following waterbodies: St. Marys River, Bells River, Jolly River, Amelia River, Jackson Creek, Nassau River, Back River, South Amelia River, Lanceford Creek, Tiger Creek and Tiger Basin (east of 81°30.133’ West Longitude), and North Fork of Alligator Creek.
Northwest Region:
Inland waters north of John Gorrie Bridge in Apalachicola Bay and other bays and tributaries;
Inland waters of Carrabelle River and its tributaries;
All waters of Sheepshead Bayou within St. Vincent Island;
All waters of Big Bayou;
All waters of Indian Lagoon and St. Vincent Sound in Gulf County;
All waters of Ochlockonee Bay and Ochlockonee River and its tributaries in Franklin and Wakulla Counties west of the U.S. 98 bridge.
All other regions (Southeast and Southwest) open year-round.
*View the full Recreational Shrimping Restrictions.
Allowable Recreational Gear
No more than two nets shall be fished from a single vessel at any one time.
Landing or dip net with an opening no larger than 96 inches around the perimeter.
Cast net with a stretched length (the distance from the horn at the center of the net, with the net gathered and pulled taut, to the lead line) no greater than 14 feet.
Push net (a mesh net or bag attached to the outer edges of a triangular or rectangular rigid frame with a handle attached) pushed or dragged by a person wading.
Beach or haul seine with a mesh area no larger than 500 square feet, mesh size no large than 2 inches stretched mesh, and may not be made of monofilament.
Frame net (a net in the form of an elongated bag kept open by a rigid frame that is buoyed by floats and is not fished or dragged along the bottom) with an opening no larger than 16 feet around the perimeter. Must be deployed from a vessel or from a structure other than an operational bridge or causeway or catwalk attached to such bridge or causeway.
Frame nets cannot be made of monofilament.
Frame nets may not be dragged or towed as a trawl.
Frame nets cannot be used to harvest shrimp in any waters within Miami-Dade County.
Up to four shrimp traps, each up to 36 in. length by 24 in. width by 12 in. height.
Within the Big Bend Closed area, only landing or dip nets and cast nets are allowed.
Shrimp Trap Guidelines
Trap Guidelines
Harvesters can use up to four shrimp traps.
Shrimp traps cannot exceed 36 in. length by 24 in. width by 12 in. height
The use of external or unattached wings or other devices to funnel shrimp into the trap is prohibited.
The harvester's name and address should be securely affixed to each trap.
Harvesters must tend their shrimp traps when the traps are attached to public property.
A buoy is not required but is recommended to prevent loss of the trap.
Baiting Information
A recreational shrimp harvester using a cast net may use nonmetal poles to bait shrimp:
No more than five poles can be set at any one time.
Poles may not exceed one inch in diameter.
Poles should be set at least 10 yards apart. The first and last pole may not be more than 50 yards apart. No poles should be set within 50 yards of any dock, pier, public boat landing or ramp, seawall, jetty or bridge.
Poles can only be set, fished and retrieved during daylight hours (1/2 hour before official sunrise and continuing through 1/2 hour after official sunset).
Poles should be marked with white reflective tape.
Poles should be tended at all times (harvester must be within 100 yards of the nearest pole at all times).
More information
Traps Diagrams
💬 Ask Buck!
✖