Skyway Fishing Pier State Park | FWC
Skip to main content
Home
Fishing
Saltwater Fishing
Recreational Regulations
Skyway Fishing Pier State Park
Regulations
Skyway Fishing Pier Education Course
Fishing at Skyway Fishing Pier? Take this required educational course to keep your Skyway fishing adventures tangle-free! Register at learningmyfwc.remote-learner.net/ and get your Certificate of Course Completion. Completion of the course is required to fish at Skyway and must be renewed annually.
Take Course
New regulations
Education Requirement
Year-round Gear Restrictions
Seasonal Gear Restrictions
Examples of Seasonally Prohibited Gear
Purpose
If you plan to fish at Skyway Fishing Pier State Park, you are required to pass an online educational course.
Once completed, you will receive a certificate of completion with a unique course completion code (must be renewed annually).
Proof of completion of the educational course is required for anyone who fishes at the Skyway Fishing Pier State Park, including those 65 and older who are normally exempt from needing a fishing license.
Anglers younger than 16 are not required to complete the education course as long as they are accompanied by an adult or guardian who has completed the course and received a certificate in the past year.
Anglers are limited to use of no more than two sets of hook-and-line fishing gear (e.g., rods or handlines)
The use of the following gear from November 15 – March 15 is prohibited:
Fishing rigs with more than one hook attached (e.g., sabiki rig, chicken rig, topwater plug)
Any multiple hook (e.g., treble hook, double hook)
Below are some examples of gear that is restricted from November 15 – March 15. Other gear may be prohibited that are not represented by the photos on this webpage as it is not a complete list.
Squid Jig
Pompano Rig
Ribbon Rig
Sabiki Rig
Sinking Jerk Bait
Vertical Jig with Treble
These regulations are designed to reduce the likelihood and severity of seabird entanglement in fishing gear and further seabird conservation at Skyway Pier.
Regulations
Full Text Rule
Florida State Park Rules
Additional Resources
Hooked a Bird?
Saltwater Fishing Tips
Fish Handling and Gear
Entanglement Prevention
Monofilament Recovery and Recycling Program
Seabird Rehabilitators and Transporters App
💬 Ask Buck!
✖