Spearing | FWC
Skip to main content
Home
Fishing
Saltwater Fishing
Recreational Regulations
Spearing
Spearing is defined as "the catching or taking of a fish by bow fishing, gigging, spearfishing, or by any device used to capture a fish by piercing its body. Spearing does not include the catching or taking of a fish by a hook with hook and line gear or by snagging (snatch hooking)."
Spearfishing is defined as "the catching or taking of a fish through the instrumentality of a hand or mechanically propelled, single or multi-pronged spear or lance, barbed or barbless, operated by a person swimming at or below the surface of the water."
The use of powerheads, bangsticks, and rebreathers remains prohibited. The following is a list of species that are prohibited for harvest by spearing. Any other species not listed that are managed by the Commission, and those species not managed by the Commission, may be harvested by spearing.
Billfish (all species)
Spotted eagle ray
Sturgeon
Manta ray
Sharks
Bonefish
Tarpon
Goliath Grouper
Snook
Blue Crab
Nassau grouper
Spotted seatrout
Red drum
Weakfish
Stone Crab
Pompano
African pompano
Permit
Tripletail
Lobster
Families of ornamental reef fish (surgeonfish, trumpetfish, angelfish, butterflyfish, porcupinefish, cornetfish, squirrelfish, trunkfish, damselfish, parrotfish, pipefish, seahorse, puffers, triggerfish except gray and ocean)
You may NOT spearfish (excluding bowhunting and gigging) as described below:
Spearfishing of marine and freshwater species in freshwater is prohibited. Possession of a spear gun in or on freshwater is also prohibited.
Within 100 yards of a public swimming beach, any commercial or public fishing pier, or any part of a bridge from which public fishing is allowed.
Within 100 feet of any part of a jetty that is above the surface of the sea - except for the last 500 yards of a jetty that extends more than 1,500 yards from the shoreline.
In Monroe County from Long Key north to the Dade County line.
For any fish for which spearing is expressly prohibited by law (listed above).
In any body of water under the jurisdiction of the Environmental Protection, Recreation and Parks. (Possession of spearfishing equipment is prohibited in these areas, unless it is unloaded and properly stored.)
Volusia County — You may not harvest by spearing in Volusia County inland waters with the exception of flounder and sheepshead, and only by the use of a barbed spear with three or fewer prongs.
Fishermen who catch and/or sell fish harvested by spearing are subject to the same rules and limitations that other anglers in the state are required to follow.
💬 Ask Buck!
✖