State Reef Fish Survey | FWC
Skip to main content
Home
Fishing
Saltwater Fishing
Recreational Regulations
SRFS
State Reef Fish Survey
Anyone who intends to fish for or harvest certain reef fish from a private vessel in Florida are required to obtain the State Reef Fish Angler designation. In July 2020, the statewide State Reef Fish Survey replaced the successful Gulf Reef Fish Survey.
State Reef Fish Anglers help improve recreational data for several reef fish species such as snapper, grouper, and hogfish. Signing up for the designation is easy, no-cost and helps the FWC paint a clearer picture of how many people are targeting reef fish like red snapper and gag and what they are seeing and harvesting on the water.
Sign up online at GoOutdoorsFlorida.com or anywhere you can purchase a Florida fishing license. See a video below for step-by-step instructions on how to sign up.
For additional questions, visit our frequently asked questions page.
How to Sign Up
For those who do not currently have a fishing license
More videos
Who is a State Reef Fish Angler?
Expand/Collapse Who is a State Reef Fish Angler?
Recreational anglers and divers fishing from a private boat anywhere in Florida who intend to harvest, attempt to harvest or possess one or more of the following reef fish species:
mutton snapper
yellowtail snapper
hogfish
red snapper
vermilion snapper
gag grouper
red grouper
black grouper
greater amberjack
lesser amberjack
banded rudderfish
almaco jack
gray triggerfish
The following groups are required to sign up for the State Reef Fish Angler designation annually, even though they are exempt from saltwater fishing licensing requirements:
Those who are age 65 or older.
Florida residents who are members of the Armed Forces of the United States, who are not stationed in this state and home on leave for 30 days or less, upon submission of orders
Veterans with disabilities, active or reserve duty military service members and their immediate family and/or an assistant who are participating in a permitted outdoor recreational event for which the Commission has issued a Military/Disabled Veteran Event License Exemption Permit to the event organizer.
Those with multi-year or lifetime licenses.
Florida residents certified as totally and permanently disabled who possess a Florida Resident Disabled Person's Hunting and Fishing License.
Individuals who hold a valid saltwater products license using their license to recreationally fish for the SRFS species.
Who does not need the designation?
Expand/Collapse Who does not need the designation?
Those not required to obtain the State Reef Fish Angler designation include individuals who are:
Fishing from a licensed charter, headboat or party boat vessel, or with a licensed for-hire guide.
There is already a separate survey mechanism in place to collect recreational fisheries data from for-hire operations.
Under 16 years of age.
Harvesting for scientific and educational purposes under a special activity license issued by FWC.
Fishing from a vessel that has a valid Recreational Vessel fishing license. (This license covers anyone saltwater fishing from a recreational vessel where no fee is paid. This is not an individual fishing license.)
Not fishing for or harvesting reef fish.
How do I obtain the designation?
Expand/Collapse How do I obtain the designation?
Signing up for the State Reef Fish Angler designation is easy, no-cost, and available anywhere FWC saltwater fishing licenses are sold.
GoOutdoorsFlorida.com
Fish|Hunt Florida mobile app
1-888-FISHFLORIDA (347-4356)
Tackle shops, sporting goods stores, and tax collectors offices
To add the designation, login or create an account, click purchase a license, scroll down to “Saltwater Fishing Permits”, select the “State Reef Fish Angler” designation to add to your cart, and follow the prompts to check out.
If you are a Gulf Reef Fish Angler, your designation will remain valid until it expires and will meet the new SRFS statewide requirement. You do not need a State Reef Fish Angler designation until your current Gulf designation expires.
What happens after I get the designation?
Expand/Collapse What happens after I get the designation?
Once you sign up, make sure to carry proof of your designation when fishing for reef fish from a private vessel.
You may be randomly selected to receive a survey by mail about your fishing activity. The information you provide is used to estimate the total number of recreational fishing trips for reef fish in Florida during a given month. Even if you did not fish for reef fish, your feedback allows scientists to more accurately determine fishing effort.
If you receive a survey, please respond and return as soon as possible, even if you did not fish in the given month!
You may be approached by an FWC biologist at the dock after returning from recreational fishing and asked to participate in an in-person interview. If you have a few minutes, please participate in this survey.
Don’t forget to renew your State Reef Fish Angler designation annually if you plan to fish for or harvest the reef fish listed above.
Is there a cost?
Expand/Collapse Is there a cost?
No. The State Reef Fish Angler designation is completely no-cost. All vendor fees are waived.
Why is FWC doing this?
Expand/Collapse Why is FWC doing this?
The Gulf Reef Fish Survey (GRFS) expired June 30, 2020, and this survey provided critical recreational harvest fishing data that allowed for the state management of Gulf red snapper, in addition to other reef fish. Replacing it with the State Reef Fish Survey ensures that this valuable information can continue to be collected in the Gulf and expands the benefits of better data and enhanced management opportunities statewide.
Recreational fishing is a valued past-time and an important driver for the economy of this state. Data collected through the State Reef Fish Survey will provide a clearer picture of the health of reef fish stocks throughout the state and help ensure the long-term sustainability of recreational fishing in Florida. SRFS will improve recreational catch estimates and allow for improved stock assessments for reef fish and enhanced management opportunities.
Your participation is crucial to the success of these efforts.
State Reef Fish Survey
Learn more about the State Reef Fish Survey
By participating in the State Reef Fish Survey, you are improving recreational data for several important reef fish species in Florida.
The Survey: At a Glance
The Survey: In-Depth
Red Snapper Research on the Atlantic Coast
Reef Fish Guide
💬 Ask Buck!
✖